Draft:
Let's brainstorm on an idea! Under "Welcome to Gurbani Software Dashboard", lets create a button to implement a feature that will be the core of this entire software & the future upcoming features. In order to reach to the depth of the philosophy of Sri Guru Granth Sahib ji, the seeker needs to have clarity on the framework within which the verses must be analyzed to understand or extract the wisdom conveyed in Gurbani! If the seeker violates this framework then the message derived will be always be implied on to outer things or a set a other people but never to the 'first person' i.e. the reader himself, professor Sahib Singh ji aptly named his corpus which is the analysis of Sri Guru Granth Sahib ji as 'Darpan' which literally means mirror, one may say that SGGS acts as a mirror that reveals us our own flaws & also guides us to what to inculcate! Now a basic question arises which is how can we know about this framework, well the answer lies in another fundamental approach of studying SGGS & that is to identify such 'Axioms' which constitute to create this Framework from the text within the SGGS itself. Let me share few simple examples that reveal such 'Axioms' which help us build the right Framework:
1. Verse: ਇਕ ਦਝਹਿ ਇਕ ਦਬੀਅਹਿ ਇਕਨਾ ਕੁਤੇ ਖਾਹਿ ॥ ਇਕਿ ਪਾਣੀ ਵਿਚਿ ਉਸਟੀਅਹਿ ਇਕਿ ਭੀ ਫਿਰਿ ਹਸਣਿ ਪਾਹਿ ॥ ਨਾਨਕ ਏਵ ਨ ਜਾਪਈ ਕਿਥੈ ਜਾਇ ਸਮਾਹਿ ॥੨॥
Translation: (ਮਰਨ ਤੇ) ਕੋਈ ਸਾੜੇ ਜਾਂਦੇ ਹਨ, ਕੋਈ ਦੱਬੇ ਜਾਂਦੇ ਹਨ, ਇਕਨਾਂ ਨੂੰ ਕੁੱਤੇ ਖਾਂਦੇ ਹਨ, ਕੋਈ ਜਲ-ਪ੍ਰਵਾਹ ਕੀਤੇ ਜਾਂਦੇ ਹਨ ਤੇ ਕੋਈ ਸੁੱਕੇ ਖੂਹ ਵਿਚ ਰੱਖੇ ਜਾਂਦੇ ਹਨ । ਪਰ, ਹੇ ਨਾਨਕ! (ਸਰੀਰ ਦੇ) ਇਸ ਸਾੜਨ ਦੱਬਣ ਆਦਿਕ ਨਾਲ ਇਹ ਨਹੀਂ ਪਤਾ ਲੱਗ ਸਕਦਾ ਕਿ ਕਿਸੇ ਜੀਵ ਦੇ ਮਰਨ ਤੋਂ ਬਾਅਦ ਕੀ ਹੁੰਦਾ ਹੈ? ।੨।
Axiom: The above complete shalok 'Explicitly' defines an 'Axiom' that no part of the SGGS is meant to teach/reveal to the reader about what happens after death! So this become a critical boundary/law that must be adhered to for understanding the text of SGGS!

2. Verse: ਸਤਿਗੁਰ ਕੀ ਬਾਣੀ ਸਤਿ ਸਰੂਪੁ ਹੈ ਗੁਰਬਾਣੀ ਬਣੀਐ ॥
Translation: ਸਤਿਗੁਰੂ ਦੀ ਬਾਣੀ ਸੱਚ ਦਾ ਸਰੂਪ ਹੈ, ਤੇ ਸਤਿਗੁਰੂ ਦੀ ਬਾਣੀ ਰਾਹੀਂ (ਸਤਿ ਸਰੂਪ) ਬਣ ਜਾਈਦਾ ਹੈ ।
Axiom: The above single verse of particular text set 'Explicitly' explains an 'Axiom' that every part of the SGGS is meant for reader to become so themselves. It beautifully outlines answer to a very fundamental question of why one show read Gurbani, & also reveals that to become the what's conveyed in the message itself!

3. Verse: ਮਾਇਆ ਮੋਹੁ ਪਰੇਤੁ ਹੈ ਕਾਮੁ ਕ੍ਰੋਧੁ ਅਹੰਕਾਰਾ ॥ ਏਹ ਜਮ ਕੀ ਸਿਰਕਾਰ ਹੈ ਏਨੑਾ ਉਪਰਿ ਜਮ ਕਾ ਡੰਡੁ ਕਰਾਰਾ ॥
Translation: ਮਾਇਆ ਦਾ ਮੋਹ, ਕਾਮ, ਕ੍ਰੋਧ ਤੇ ਅਹੰਕਾਰ ਭੂਤ ਹਨ । ਇਹ ਸਾਰੇ ਜਮਰਾਜ ਦੀ ਰਈਅਤ ਹਨ, ਇਹਨਾਂ ਉੱਤੇ ਜਮਰਾਜ ਦਾ ਜ਼ੋਰ ਚੱਲਦਾ ਹੈ ।
Axiom: The above pair of verses from a particular text set 'Explicitly' explains an 'Axiom' that through out SGGS whenever the term 'demons', 'ghosts', ' Messenger of Death' or other similar terms appears in SGGS then they are meant to the vices & bad thought process that we adopt & this also points implicitly that Gurbani negates the existence of these 'demons', 'ghosts', ' Messenger of Death' or other similar things.

4. Verse: ਵਿਣੁ ਗੁਣ ਕੀਤੇ ਭਗਤਿ ਨ ਹੋਇ ॥
Translation: ਗੁਣ ਤੋਂ ਬਿਨਾਂ, ਭਗਤੀ ਹੋ ਹੀ ਨਹੀਂ ਸਕਦੀ। 
Axiom: The above single verse of particular text set 'Explicitly' explains an 'Axiom' that without virtue, devotion cannot exist. So whenever there comes a part of praying to God in SGGS, that should be understood as practicing of virtues & not the conventional prayer.

5. Verse: ਕਵਣੁ ਸੁ ਅਖਰੁ ਕਵਣੁ ਗੁਣੁ ਕਵਣੁ ਸੁ ਮਣੀਆ ਮੰਤੁ ॥ ਕਵਣੁ ਸੁ ਵੇਸੋ ਹਉ ਕਰੀ ਜਿਤੁ ਵਸਿ ਆਵੈ ਕੰਤੁ ॥੧੨੬॥ ਨਿਵਣੁ ਸੁ ਅਖਰੁ ਖਵਣੁ ਗੁਣੁ ਜਿਹਬਾ ਮਣੀਆ ਮੰਤੁ ॥ ਏ ਤ੍ਰੈ ਭੈਣੇ ਵੇਸ ਕਰਿ ਤਾਂ ਵਸਿ ਆਵੀ ਕੰਤੁ ॥੧੨੭॥
Translation:  ਉਹ ਕੇਹੜਾ ਅੱਖਰ ਹੈ? ਉਹ ਕੇਹੜਾ ਗੁਣ ਹੈ? ਉਹ ਕੇਹੜਾ ਸ਼ਿਰੋਮਣੀ ਮੰਤਰ ਹੈ? ਉਹ ਕੇਹੜਾ ਵੇਸ ਮੈਂ ਕਰਾਂ ਜਿਸ ਨਾਲ (ਮੇਰਾ) ਖਸਮ (ਮੇਰੇ) ਵੱਸ ਵਿਚ ਆ ਜਾਏ? ।੧੨੬। ਨਿਊਣਾ ਅੱਖਰ ਹੈ, ਸਹਾਰਨਾ ਗੁਣ ਹੈ, ਮਿੱਠਾ ਬੋਲਣਾ ਸ਼ਿਰੋਮਣੀ ਮੰਤਰ ਹੈ । ਜੇ ਇਹ ਤਿੰਨ ਵੇਸ ਕਰ ਲਏਂ ਤਾਂ (ਮੇਰਾ) ਖਸਮ (ਤੇਰੇ) ਵੱਸ ਵਿਚ ਆ ਜਾਇਗਾ ।੧੨੭।
Axiom: The above pair of shaloks 'Explicitly' defines an 'Axiom' that virtues are the means for Oneness!

6. Verse: ਆਜੁ ਮਿਲਾਵਾ ਸੇਖ ਫਰੀਦ ਟਾਕਿਮ ਕੂੰਜੜੀਆ ਮਨਹੁ ਮਚਿੰਦੜੀਆ ॥੧॥ ਰਹਾਉ ॥
Translation: ਹੇ ਸ਼ੇਖ ਫ਼ਰੀਦ! ਇਸ ਮਨੁੱਖਾ ਜਨਮ ਵਿਚ ਹੀ (ਰੱਬ ਨਾਲ) ਮੇਲ ਹੋ ਸਕਦਾ ਹੈ (ਇਸ ਵਾਸਤੇ ਇਹਨਾਂ) ਮਨ ਨੂੰ ਮਚਾਉਣ ਵਾਲੀਆਂ ਇੰਦ੍ਰੀਆਂ ਨੂੰ ਕਾਬੂ ਵਿਚ ਰੱਖ ।੧।ਰਹਾਉ।
Axiom: The above single verse of particular text set 'Explicitly' explains an 'Axiom' that Union with God can be achieved in the present moment by keeping the mind controlled. This means that if we sincerely follow the path of virtues, there is no delay in finding relief.

The above examples point to an extremely important paradigm necessary to understand the text of SGGS that most of the seekers who study Gurbani will easily miss out if they are not aware of such framework. Hence an extremely critical feature is needed to be implemented that'll be core to the upcoming feature of creating dictionary to analyze the metaphorical meaning of terms used in SGGS as well as to correctly interpret spiritual translation aka wisdom in the verses of the SGGS! Right now we have already implemented features that helps us explore the literal meaning of the verses under 'Literal Translation' button or reanalyze the verse if needed under the 'Edit Saved Literal Translation' button. We have further successfully implemented features to understand the grammar of a particular word under the 'Assess by Verse' & 'Assess by Word' feature that also help in evaluating the literal translation effectively. Since we have implemented tool to understand the literal translation effectively, using the 'Axioms' will play a critical role for the in-depth study of the SGGS.

The approach that I feel we can adopt is either the user brings a verse of which we perform the 'Literal Translation' or we provide the entire SGGS in a verse by verse format. At first we will focus on implementing the approach based on the 'Literal Translation' basis to extract the 'Axiom' from a verse given by the user, once we accomplish this then we'll to develop the feature were user is given the entire SGGS in a verse by verse format & they work on extracting 'Axiom' as they study the SGGS. The already implemented 'Literal Translation' saves the grammar of each word of the verse, literal translation of that verse, & it also provides a choice of 'Framework?' & 'Explicit?' check boxes at the time of saving the translation! For our desired feature we will have a fixed condition that the 'Framework?' checkbox will be by default always selected for that verse & the user to have a choice for 'Explicit?' checkbox selection. Now when user choses 'Explicit?' checkbox, then that verse(s) & there literal translation will be used directly to establish a new 'Axiom' or to incorporate that verse(s) & there literal translation into existing 'Axiom'. However if the user leaves the 'Explicit?' checkbox unchecked, the program shall ask user to link other verses to the current verse that will be by default 'Framework?' & 'Explicit?' check boxes checked, the intent here is to establish 'Axioms' using verse that are ultimately explicit in nature to establish the critical boundary/law that must be adhered to for understanding the text of SGGS! The verse(s) that will have both 'Framework?' (by default always checked) & 'Explicit?' checkboxes checked will be categorized as 'Primary', the verse(s) that will have only 'Framework?' (by default always checked) checkboxes checked but the 'Explicit?' checkboxes unchecked will not be categorized as 'Primary' but 'Secondary' or 'Tertiary' and so on until they ultimately link to a 'Primary' category verse! This will help us intelligently enhance the 'Axioms'.

We also need to implement a functionality similar to the 'Assess by Word' feature where user has flexibility to pause there work & resume later. Here, we can provide the user with an opportunity to pause there work after user completes the literal translation of verse & before the move to the next verse when the user fed verse was not primary! We can create a JSON or a CSV file where we save the user selected verse(s) (consecutive in nature similar to 'Literal Translation' feature if more than one verse is selected by the user) as a parent/main verse(s); Literal translation of the parent/main verse(s); Revision number of the Literal translation of the parent/main verse(s); we'll save the date & time of its selection; analysis started status; analysis start date time; analysis completed status; analysis complete date time; reanalysis started status; reanalysis start date time; reanalysis completed status; reanalysis complete date time; link to the Axioms (better to have a list here); contribution to respective linked Axiom; parent/main verse(s) category i.e. 'Primary', 'Secondary', 'Tertiary' and so on; supporting verse(s) if the parent/main verse(s) is not 'Primary'; Literal translation of the supporting verse(s); Revision number of the Literal translation of the supporting verse(s); we'll save the date & time of supporting verse(s) selection; supporting verse(s) analysis started status; supporting verse(s) analysis start date time; supporting verse(s) analysis completed status; supporting verse(s) analysis complete date time; supporting verse(s) reanalysis started status; supporting verse(s) reanalysis start date time; supporting verse(s) reanalysis completed status; supporting verse(s) reanalysis complete date time; supporting verse(s) link to the Axioms (better to have a list here); supporting verse(s) contribution to respective linked Axiom; supporting verse(s) category i.e. 'Primary', 'Secondary', 'Tertiary' and so on. The branching if the parent/main verse(s) is not primary should be very flexible, similarly the branching of the supporting verse(s) if its not primary should be very flexible as well.


The Literal translation & associated grammar will be saved in the file titled '1.2.1 assessment_data.xlsx' only, similar to the existing 'Literal Translation' button or 'Edit Saved Literal Translation' button but new functions are to be developed & no alteration must be done to the existing functions & methods. We'll also implement a feature where, we list out the verse(s) from '1.2.1 assessment_data.xlsx' who have '1' for the 'Framework?'column for Axiom extraction related work if they are missing in the new JSON or a CSV file and also when the revision number corresponding to the parent/main verse(s) or the supporting verse(s) in the new JSON or a CSV file is less that of the revision number for that verse(s) in the '1.2.1 assessment_data.xlsx' file. The parent/main verse(s) will be automatically listed for reanalysis even if the revision number of its supporting verse(s) exceeds so that that all records that need to be updated are conveyed to the user! We will implement a feature which is newly developed but inspired by the functionality of 'Literal Translation' button or 'Edit Saved Literal Translation' button that at the end i.e. after asking for "Paste the analysis result for the entire verse below:" & finalizing the correct grammar options for the words of the verse for which user selected more than one options asks for finalizing the 'Axioms', the contribution of the respective verse to this Axiom, & overall Axiom specific description by means of generating prompt for ChatGPT to do the analysis. To facilitate finalizing the 'Axioms' derived from current verse, in the prompt we will also give the already existing list of 'Axioms' so that standardization could be maintained, single verse could contribute to more than one axiom, if an existing 'Axiom' matches but a new 'Axiom' is also derived from the literal translation of that verse then we should have feature to harness that as well! The 'Axiom' will be like a concise & clear law, the axiom description will be of two types:
i) verse specific &
ii) Axiom specific, this description will update everytime for a particular 'Axiom' whenever a new verse(s) is hooked to it. The program while generate prompt to either append to existing description or redraft the entire description. The prompt for this part will have list of all the verse specific axiom descriptions given to ChatGPT for study & the decided whether to append to existing Axiom specific description or redraft the entire Axiom specific description.

After the Axiom-specific description is processed, we'll create a list of keywords under four categories. For this to happen, our program will then generate a prompt for each category separately & it'll also convey the format in which the output should be produced by ChatGPT, ensuring the results can be saved correctly. Every time the Axiom-specific description is updated, the existing keywords will also be updated & the prompt will also have the list of all the keywords for the respective category corresponding to the current 'Axiom' as well as other 'Axioms', so that overpopulation of keywords is controlled. These four categories are:
1. Literal Synonym Key words;
2. Literal Antonym Key words;
3. Spiritual Synonym Key words;
4. Spiritual Antonym Key words.

The 'Axioms', Axiom-specific descriptions, & the keywords under each category need to be saved separately in an Excel, CSV, or JSON file.