PROMPT:
Let's brainstorm on an idea! Under 'Grammar DB Update', we have two options: 'Assess by Verse', where the User feeds a verse & assesses the grammar of the words within that Verse (this feature implementation has been completed & it's fully functional at present), and the second, which is currently under development, is 'Assess by Word'. The functionality I am planning to implement in 'Assess by Word' is:
a. When the User clicks the 'Assess by Word' button, a new Dashboard opens up. Here, the User has the option buttons to start a new assessment, continue the past incomplete assessment or view the completed assessments.
b. In starting a new assessment, a new window opens where the User enters a single word & we provide a search button that lists out the closest matching deduplicated words from the 'Verse' column of the file '1.1.3 sggs_extracted_with_page_numbers.xlsx'. We'll have a provision for choosing one or more words using the check boxes & if the User chooses more than one word, we'll have a feature where they can decide the sequence for the Analysis of the chosen words. We'll have our program create an Excel file titled '1.1.6 XXXX.xlsx' (if not already present in the current directory) with the first sheet dedicated to tracking the words that have been listed for Analysis, along with various headers such as listed for Analysis,  date & time of listing the word for Analysis, words selected for Analysis, date & time of choosing the word, whether the User has started the Analysis of that word, date & time of beginning the Analysis of that word, whether Analysis is completed, & date & time completing the Analysis.
c. Analysis of the chosen word, here we will list out all the verses with the exact word in the 'Verse' column (we might use the visual attributes inspired from the '_populate_cards' function, but the number of verses is not restricted to 10) of the file '1.1.3 sggs_extracted_with_page_numbers.xlsx', we'll implement check box feature for user to choose as many verse as they want. These listed verses will be written against the word under Analysis in the Excel file titled '1.1.6 XXXX.xlsx' with the second sheet dedicated to tracking the progress of the Analysis in a manner where we have the word under Analysis in a cell, word index in the next cell, the listed Verse in the next cell, page number of the verse (use data from column titled 'Page Number' in '1.1.3 sggs_extracted_with_page_numbers.xlsx'), status of whether the User have chosen that listed Verse for Analysis, the time & date of selection that listed Verse for Analysis, status of analysis progress (not strated, completed), & the time & date of completion of Analysis for that Verse. Please note that we will use the functionality of the existing 'Assess by Verse' feature to analyse these selected verses & save them in exactly the same manner in '1.1.1_birha.csv' as done by 'Assess by Verse'. Once a verse analysis is completed, its status is updated in the second sheet & the user is asked to continue to the next verse of the word or pause their work for later.
d. In the continue the past incomplete assessment feature, we list chosen words for analysis (data available in the first sheet) in FIFO manner & gather their data from first sheet of '1.1.6 XXXX.xlsx' which contains the chosen words (if there is more than one word chosen for analysis, else if there is only one word we can directly switch to its analysis for pending verses of that word), from here the User is expected to click on the words whose assessment they want to resume & we take the user to the analysis of its verses whose data we'll collect from the second sheet.
e. In the view the completed assessments feature we'll have the data tabulated in ascending order of completion of analysis & this data will be acquired from the second sheet of '1.1.6 XXXX.xlsx' file. Here we will also have provisions of reanalysing the existing word & their corresponding verse, the completion date & time will then be modified accordingly in the second sheet of '1.1.6 XXXX.xlsx' file.